[Music]
Delos was a pretty quiet boat with just
a three of us on board kamila Greg and
Cheyenne had flown home and we were
spending our time catching up on some
boat chores
[Music]
every now and then would feel the need
to get away from the nose eBay Anchorage
away from the Internet's away from the
parties
so we'd head out to our favorite
Anchorage's around the incredible
cruising area of nosey babe
[Music]
sometimes we'd stay off for a week or
more only returning when our fresh
veggies ran out this week was special
though it was Karen's birthday and the
birthday princess requested sun sand and
of course diamond
[Music]
mr. Brady no servo nice office you have
here bro Sunday work day Sunday work day
yeah you know what I was thinking I was
thinking we do an afternoon sunset
mission to the top of nosey : oh that's
not good I like it
all right to the top Delos is anchored
off of a small island just to the east
of nosy Bay called nosy khumba
there's not a lot of happening on no
zicoba there's no roads no cars and no
electricity village life is simple
the people here hiked the mountain
trails in search of valuable hardwoods
and make a living carving weaving some
pretty amazing things that are sold all
over Madagascar at the center of the
village lies the schoolyard the
playground is nothing more than a cement
slab that doubles as the village market
but nobody seems to mind
[Music]
our plan was to walk through the village
to the western side of the island and
follow a trail as high as we could to
get a view of the sunset
[Music]
trying to lift it ready this thing he's
carrying up is saying it's a hundred and
twenty something kilos shy and he's
carrying it up this mountain carry it to
the top forum will see you when you get
back but it's like 50 kilos or just a
completely different way of life like I
mean I was like popping I was like
anyone did it take us here maybe half an
hour hookup or something like walking
pretty good but it's just you know the
fitness is crazy how do we do it up here
anyway well we kind of wanted to do a
little time lapse on the sunset so we're
gonna try and see if we can do it from
it is it pretty sweet yeah that's a
great deal yeah when the Sun gets a
little lower it's gonna be spectacular
yeah Oh how'd it go that guy's crazy
okay he got to the top and he wanted to
take it back from me so I just handed it
over he just pops it on the back of the
shoulders and puts his hands in his
pockets and just walks away it was good
that rice was soaked like what like
sweat yeah rice from the market I guess
you don't need to salt your rice though
this is the best part of his magic oh
yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
today
I'm getting
you're like a fine cheese
what are we doing here
telling
and I've
like
today
feel about me turning
I think it's an awesome I think it's a
good good age to be that means that I
met you and you're 22 and you've been on
board of fellows fellows for this is
your sixth year sailing
crazy
it's gonna be a good year
pretty perfect morning for a dive the
Sun is out nothing better than sitting
on the back deck in the morning putting
the wetsuit on it's not so many people
yet
I think we're caught early oh he's gonna
die from the boat
the bitch looks pretty good too really
Clara to get in the water because it's
getting hot right now
bananas defeating army every time I walk
past you I've made it my goal to eat one
or else I gonna go back I'd like six
today already oh I'm so full of bananas
Tenakee leave alone Jim huh so this 10
Achilles in National Park and there's a
10,000 rere fee per person $3 $3 per
person to be here and dive and go on the
island and stuff and it's cool because
they always have people on the island
making sure that does not fishermen out
here and it's all protected so it's
worth it $2 per person to come here and
dive but they come to the boat and
collect it and they usually cook right
away when you pull up and we haven't
seen him and we're gonna go for the dive
so we're gonna put the money on then if
it's stick hanging out hang it out for
them
just think of the backhander life
[Music]
a birthday can you believe there's a
solar eclipse on your birthday
so Brian is setting up the tripod for
the solar eclipse do you think will work
right I don't know I think it'll work
see why not what are you thinking all
right hey
it's our last pack of South African
built Oh didn't want to see it yeah yeah
they work really good it's already
happening we put it in front of the
camera look I have to go to the stuff
I see no nothing oh yes
[Applause]
yeah that's also look at the moon it is
[Laughter]
Sun looks like the moon look at it cool
we should set this up as a time-lapse
yeah you're right
the glasses was a game change but you
can definitely feel it changing now
right like it's not like I almost felt a
little bit of a choke yeah
and it's kind of a weird light like it
should be Waverider it's probably hard
to tell see the camera
we have starting to come back now that
was our maximum 1248 it's getting
brighter it's getting bright a lot
quicker - yeah
it had already been a pretty epic
birthday for my Swedish princess and I
still had one more trick up my sleeve
our buddy Matty gangsta came by to sing
Charon a Happy Birthday song and for the
first time and I don't know how long we
left mr. Grady and Matty ganks
Donatello's and for the princely sum of
99 euros I found us a fancy terrorist
resorts like the lucky girl
every play
Lucas this place on to the TV
brian is spoiling me like crazy
walk outside we have a beach bungalow
and Brian is taking a shower right now
we're gonna have a massage before dinner
I mean it's just too cool in this
relaxed
hey happy birthday casa
[Music]
so we have some nice ladies that should
then they leave no no they're on the
bail
it's nice ladies that showed up to vote
and they're trying to sell his crab
I saw him paddle from the far corner so
so bad turning him down big boy like
medicine yeah yeah medicine like panadol
or something yeah I think so
how about your grandpa grandpa pretty
good deal twenty thousand RER he lets
out about six dollars six bucks for for
craps
cuz I'm missing one of his big big ones
but it's crazy how they tie him up man
yeah it was a pretty chill night the
evening was calm and the moon was bright
but before we could begin our crab feast
something outside grabbed our attention
tides are crazy right now
well let's revive that is oh my god
it's literally land right there right
that Island wasn't there a couple of
hours ago I've never seen the tides this
big here cuz it was you trying to go
because you can't see the focus is not
right
oh there we go we had six almost seven
meters under us when we anchored here
right and now we have two two point four
so we're not on the bottom yet if
there's two point five hundred Ellis
it's four five grand we wouldn't get
there oh yeah we'd be laying on our side
on our side right now
yeah so it's a bit scary so Brian is
just checking the tide dead lows in
about 25 minutes and then I'll start
coming back up it's so freaky to see the
land right there though dude this is one
of those times you're like you know
somebody's something
I don't know yeah Brady's actually gonna
go in in the paddleboard and just have a
little look around with the depth
sounder and just see if we could perhaps
pick up a little bit of anchor chain
just to move us even five meters more
away would be a big difference seven and
a half feet right here okay one there's
like a big ledge right there oh so we
could probably take in some chain no
problem yeah here we go
okay I know after doing that we're in
two point seven so we haven't gained a
lot of depth but we're further away from
the shallow bits so that's good thanks
for doing that brother yeah
so
hmm pretty good night's sleep right yeah
I slept through good huh
and we didn't hit gland no but all the
ones from the other direction and we're
right over the shallow spot so if we
don't leave soon
yeah it's dropping fast too so we go
we're out
look it see the one in the front yeah
he's got the fish yeah
that's cool man I've never seen them
hunting before and he's just carrying
the fish around which is kind of strange
so chill
we see it in the GoPro huh yeah we're
gonna stick around for a bit
[Music]
yeah
I was just snorkeling straight up to the
back of the boat doing nothing wrong
just snorkeling up and the EO came up
underneath the boat just sneaked me I
thought it was a log or something
floating
kind of looking at me going oh like
he was scared
you didn't know what it was went back
down I've never seen him off the reef
before
yes
other things sometimes mr. Brady
sometimes life is not as straightforward
as it
what are you destroying our regulator
for the
we need to fill our propane tanks as in
a lot of places it's not as
straightforward as just taking your tank
in and having them plug it into the big
tank and fill in it like nobody does
that here in Madagascar so what you have
to do is buy a regular regulator that
fits one of the tanks here and then you
have to remove the guts out so that it's
not a regulator and then
you have to find a way to hook it up to
your tank you put the new tank up on top
and you just let it drip down into your
tank I got a tour one time in the
Philippines and we're about to run out
of gas so I am trying to replicate
whatever I did last time so that
basically turns from a regulator to an
adapter adapter free clothes yeah free
flow high pressure and doctor what are
the dangers involved explosion you can
freeze yourself with LPG gas which I was
last time it reaches your skin so far
looks like it's working good so here's
the
the fixed regulator that's not a
regulator anymore and then we've made
the other end of this tank out of some
spare die adapters and things that we
have that happen to be the right thread
yeah we'll do it we're doing it on the
back here so that if it does leak then
the gas just gets blown off the back of
the boat
yeah we were the top of it right off
good yeah
failure that's how you freeze you so
yeah this is a temp too and we modified
this regulator to be a little bit
stronger because it didn't hold the
pressure last time jammed it full of
goodness and then zip tied it okay so
have my safety glasses on oh hey okay
it's holding here any leaks now let's
get the stuff and water and rub it
around I'm gonna open this tank
sounds awfully fast
well little I think it'll go equalize
it'll go fast people with equalizing
pressure and then it'll a little bit
it'll surgery yeah
[Applause]
here yeah we have a lot of stuff that
was given to us by other cruisers
specifically to give to people in
Madagascar because they actually have so
little I think the average salary for
one of these fishermen is I think it's
something like just over a year OID by a
lot and so you know they they make their
lives fishing and they don't have
anything so anytime we see some guys
paddling by I try and come off the back
and wave them over and give them some
old line or some some hooks because they
can't get spare hooks here and some
lures and stuff so hopefully it'll be
good for him it's always nice to do so
that was it the birthday weekend has out
in the islands had come to an end
[Music]
heed this warning from me up next we
head out for a week of buddy boating
with momiji a traditional Malagasy
Prague
[Music]
[Laughter]
like it
yeah but just say happy I'm not
recording yet but practice say happy
birthday Karen Jerry yay
so to say happy birthday Ken Karen will
like you all go go
wait we just if she can
[Music]